

originality (Scribed By: ewe2) Version: 2

$Revision: 47 $


Program:


Topic: mic noise


Speaker: sean


Topic:


Speaker: sean

ok time for a small bitch i just ah just got the kiwix 0.version of the offline
wikipedia reader, some interesting articles and one of them's about cyberpunk
literary phenomenonand i've just got a small little whine because- ah David
Brin made some very useful points he's ahe's usually a bit of a tease as a
writer he's got very interesting viewpoints um particularly for instance on
Star Wars I think it was him that posited that Star Wars itself was evil and
George Lucas was the evilnoise: [b]evil for um inventing it um he's asking the
point you know that ahnoise: [b]cyberpunk was a-a useful promotion for science
fiction in general but not particularly original and i wanna pick up on this
because the article has pointed to many of the precursors of cyberpunk but when
we talk about cyberpunk what we're really talking about is a labelled that ah

Topic: pause


Speaker: sean


Topic:


Speaker: sean

a certain- the popularity of certain science fiction novels, we're not really
talking - i mean that - about something that's - all that terribly distinct
um... it's one of those buzzwords that come around but his point about "oh you
know, cyberpunk great promotional tool but hardly original" i wanna make an
argument that i- ah i often see this kind of um i guess ah what'd you call it a
um almost a political tool used whenever you want to discredit ah something
that's come up you don't exactly agree with you say "oh they're not original"
i'm sick of hearing this, i've been reading stuff about the um the supposed
"unoriginality" of Linux because it was based on Minix and the simple point is
that you don't- noone starts from scratch everybody starts with

Topic:


Speaker: sean


Topic:


Speaker: sean

the bones of a good idea from somewhere else for instance the sourcecode of an
existing program ah maybe you want to make a change or do something ah
different with it and ah eventually the ah product evolves into something
that's new but that's a process of evolution, it's not a question of whether
you're original or not, i used to be quite concerned with that phrase once ah i
as a musician i used to think that you had to be original there was this real
thing to be original it took me years to realize its impossible to be original
and yes there is the um the old line ah from picasso that "great artists steal
whereas good artists borrow" and we've now entered a almost an ideological but
definitely a legal cultural world where borrowing is definitely not permitted
and lawrence lessig has made a um passionate point about that arguing that if
we clamp down on the rights of the public domain, at the rate that we're doing
once there is no public domain there will not be any great creativity because
nobody will have anything to base their work on, you cannot work in a vaccum,
i've never, it's a very very rare instance where something new has come along
say you're you know give or take, ah err as lessig himself argued ah any major
invention of the last 150 years normally had about 3 or 4 people come up with
the idea independently, sometimes in relationship to each other, it's quite
rare um and maybe one person had the best implementation of that and they were
called the inventor or the originator of it um there was ah many years ago a i
noticed that different countries would claim that their person had invent-
independentally invented ah radio for instance everybody was claiming that
their own country had invented radio it was impossible of course no way um that
any one person had invented radio it was a series of accidents sometimes the
wily, in the caze of edison and marconi got, got there first but often there
was something missing that somebody else added that made it worthwhile ah and
the argument that - coming back to the cyberpunk argument "cyberpunk isn't
original" but that's not the point, the point is that a certain fashion -
literary fashion - arose and acted upon and gave birth to an arguably distinct
genre narrow as it is because i mean when we're talking about the genre of
cyberpunk we're really arguing about a certain style of science fiction it's
not, it's not as if it's a completely distinct field of its own so when people
argue "were they original?" ok well, so what? what if they, what if they
weren't? why is that, why is that pertinent? why is any of that pertinent, it's
impossible to be original ah as we know the origin "the origin" see that's
where the word comes from it's a greek root to originate something, as Tolkien
made one of his characters observe, is too great a claim for any, the best we
can do is work with what we're given and do our best with that, somebody else
will pick it up and take it on and so the story goes on, so we're only part of,
we didn't start it, we're certainly not going to end it and ah i believe that's
what people should be cognisant of when you have arguments like this because
it, it basically, all the argument "it's not original" is meant to do is to
tell you "oh its not exciting, it's not new, it's not progress, please ignore
it because it threatens us"

Topic: mic noise


Speaker: sean

